[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH:
Here at Gaia,
we've featured a number of
people who serve as channels
for information coming from
higher source and sometimes
even higher self.
Today we're speaking
with Paul Selig,
who became a channel after
a spiritual awakening
over 30 years ago.
Since then, he's written at
least a half a dozen channeled
books.
And today, we'll be digging into
his newest, "Beyond the Known".
Welcome, Paul.
It's been really fun sitting
here chatting off-camera
with you for a while and
getting to know you personally
a little bit.
And first of all, you're
very self-effacing.
You say when it comes to
what you do, you show up
and you do the work
that is asked of you,
and other than that,
you're kind of a recluse.
And you're the Forrest
Gump of the duo.
You simply wait, and then
the information comes.
And so we're going to experience
that in a little while.
And because you're
the Forrest Gump,
I'm going to be
talking with you first,
and obviously you've
learned a thing or two
through these channelings
all these years.
And so we'll chat a
little bit, and then we'll
go into a channeling after that.
And for those who don't
already know your work,
tell us what
happened 30 years ago
that kind of blasted you open.
>> PAUL SELIG: It was
a series of things.
But I was 25 years old.
I had had a list
of things that I
thought I needed to
achieve in the world that
would make me OK.
I got the whole list.
I wasn't OK.
I began to look
for something more,
really out of sheer necessity,
not because I thought it
would be nice to get spiritual.
I'd been raised pretty
much an atheist.
There was this thing happening
in 1987 called the Harmonic
Convergence.
>> REGINA: Oh, I remember it.
>> SELIG: People were
going to be waking up.
And I thought, in my
naivete, I thought, well,
if there is a god or
something like a god
and you ask to be
woken up to it,
why would it want to say no?
And I went up to the
roof of the building
that I lived in the
night before this event,
and somebody had given me
a mantra and a crystal.
And I thought you
needed the props.
>> REGINA: All the tools.
>> SELIG: All the props.
And I went up there, and
I asked to be woken up.
And I think I asked from a place
of real sincerity and a belief
that perhaps something
might happen.
And something did.
And it was an experience
of energy sort
of moving through my body.
It began, now I would know,
at the base of the root,
and it just push,
push, pushed it out
through the top of my
head and sort of left
me swaying in this
energy on the roof.
And I always say,
you know, for all I
know I was
hyperventilating up there.
Maybe that's what it was.
But I started seeing
little lights around people
shortly thereafter.
And for me, who had been
raised with nothing,
it was a tangible
experience of energy.
And it came in a beautiful way.
And it gave me
something to trust,
and it became an anchor for
me after I began opening up
as a clairaudient after
I studied healing,
which was a few years later.
And I found that when I had
my hands on people's bodies,
I could hear things for them.
I was volunteering at a center
for people who were living
with life-challenging illness.
It was the height of the
AIDS epidemic in New York,
and there were these pop-ups.
And I had my hands on somebody,
and I heard the name Frederick.
And I learned to say,
who is Frederick?
And they'd say, well, that's
my father, or that's my son,
or that's my dog.
And I began to trust
the transmission.
And that was the beginning
of a process, really,
of becoming a radio
for a transmission that
now expresses itself in books.
>> REGINA: And this
rooftop was in New York.
You're a New Yorker.
>> SELIG: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So I mean,
I went the distance.
I was at Mount Shasta.
We were all camped
out at Mount Shasta,
and all waiting for these
transmissions like you.
I didn't have anything
like that happen,
but it was a lovely experience.
And so now you've
gone through this.
But there was
something in you that
had to have been in
enough pain that you
were sincere in your requests.
>> SELIG: Yeah.
>> REGINA: This wasn't--
you weren't doing it lightly.
>> SELIG: I've never been much
of a dilettante, you know,
as a spiritual person.
I mean, my story was simple.
I was a playwright.
I was a year out of
graduate school at Yale.
I was getting produced
in New York and London.
Everything was going great.
And I was working on
an opera in Minnesota.
And I was being billeted a
lodge, with the Gopher Campus
Motor Lodge, which
had a giant gopher
on a spit outside the window.
And I didn't know where
the drugs were in St. Paul,
and I actually remember that
the Gideons leave these books
in drawers of hotel rooms.
And I pulled it out, and it said
prayer for people in crisis.
>> REGINA: What do you
think the crisis was?
>> SELIG: At the
time, I didn't know.
I knew that I was
having a bad time
and perhaps it wasn't
going to change.
And I think in that
moment I realized
that there was perhaps something
more that I had to apply to.
>> REGINA: Right.
It was an existenstial crisis.
>> SELIG: Totally existential.
And that was the beginning.
Three days later, I woke
up back in New York City,
and I asked myself
what I could do
for myself that was positive.
And I heard the first voice.
And that was the opening.
When I hear a
voice, I always have
to say it's not like
somebody is whispering to me
from the other side of a room.
It's like a thought
that pushes aside
all other thoughts to
the forefront of my mind
that has this quality of
truth that I can't deny,
and is almost always
not convenient to what
I want to hear.
>> REGINA: Right.
Exactly.
Well, it's interesting,
because as I've-- you know,
I've been doing
this for many years.
And as I sit with a
person for the first time
and hear their stories and
such, one thing I've noticed
is that a lot of times
it's men in their 20s
that have been accomplished
that like, this isn't enough.
This isn't enough.
And there's just this
kind of ache for something
they can't even put
their finger on.
It seems to come to women
in a slightly different way.
It enters the women who become
clairvoyants and channels
differently, often unexpected,
and not necessarily sought.
>> SELIG: Yeah.
>> REGINA: What is it in the
male character, you think,
that is this like, god,
I'm doing everything I can
and it's not enough?
>> SELIG: I have no idea.
I'll be honest with you.
>> REGINA: I just find
it kind of interesting.
>> SELIG: I mean, I don't know
a lot of women channelers.
I have a lot of friends who
are very good psychics and very
accomplished in that work.
And their intuitive skills
are through the roof.
My ability is as an empath
and always has been.
And I've done
everything that one
can do in a life to
try to circumvent that,
to dull the receptivity.
And I think what happened to me
was I couldn't keep dulling it.
I had to begin to honor it.
And I think that there's
a yearning that most of us
probably have for
something spiritual,
even if we can't name it.
You know, from where I grew
up, it wasn't fashionable.
We went to therapy.
We didn't go to church.
It wasn't part of our world.
And so what I was doing
was completely crazy.
As far as all my
friends were concerned,
this made no sense that I
should go on this journey.
And I've stayed on it
for a long time now.
>> REGINA: So I don't know
what your own beliefs are
on the subject of the
cycle, wheel of life,
and reincarnation and so forth.
But is it possible
that this is a skill
that you have brought forward
from other times then?
>> SELIG: I believe that.
And the guides that
I work with have
said that this isn't the first
time we've worked together.
And this is the
first time that I'm
going to perhaps fully realize
what they've been teaching.
And I'm hopeful for that.
And I have some memories, and
they're not all very pleasant,
from other times I've
done this kind of work.
I think we live in
a time now where
people are more receptive
to the possibility for that.
That wasn't always the case.
And a lot of us who do this
work come from a history
of slight remembrance.
Every time I take another
step, becoming more public
with this work, I really
want to duck behind a tree,
because I still have
some memory of--
>> REGINA: What's
happened before.
>> SELIG: What's
>> REGINA: A lot of people
have that same fear.
>> SELIG: I understand, yeah.
>> REGINA: Because the people
who are working on developing
intuition are like, oh my
god, I'd love to do that.
But if you do have
a history of it,
no, you wouldn't
love to do that.
You want to keep your
head below the parapet.
And now you can't
do that anymore.
>> SELIG: Exactly.
Yeah.
>> REGINA: In fact, you
just came back from Bahamas,
and you're all over the place.
So, OK, let's go into this.
We're going to talk about
a couple of the concepts
that have come through
and that are in this book.
And one of them has to
do with upper rooms.
And explain this whole
notion of upper rooms,
and where the elevator stops
between floors, and so forth.
>> SELIG: Well, the guides that
I work with, I should say this,
they dictate these books.
So there's like seven
of them in print.
They're all the
unedited transcripts.
And they've been talking
about this thing called
the upper room for a little bit.
What they say is that we're
operating in a shared octave.
And that's the word they use,
a shared octave, of expression.
And an octave has high notes
and low notes, you know,
and we're all contributing
to this idea of reality
through the consciousness
that we hold.
It's a shared
construct of reality
that holds a lot of prior data.
What things have been--
what we've been taught
things should mean.
What it means to be a man.
What it means to be spiritual.
You can name it.
But all of the
things that we see,
the guides say we are in
collective accord with.
And they use the term accord.
And they say a A-C-C-O-R-D,
or A C-H-O-R-D as on a piano,
as if it's vibration and tone.
So we're sharing this
collective octave.
And they say there
is an aspect of us.
They call it the true
self, or the divine self,
or the Christ itself.
There's a lot of
different names.
I suppose there's a
name for it probably
in every system of
belief that you can find.
But they say the
true self, which
is the truth of who we are
beyond the mask of identity,
operates in what they
call the upper room.
And what the upper
room is is the octave
above the collective,
the one we're used to.
And they explain it in
a simple way for me,
which is they say every
song or every note
can be played in a higher
octave into infinity.
You can't necessarily
hear it, but it doesn't
mean that it doesn't exist.
And the process that
they're taking us through,
which is a bit trippy,
and they talk about it
as re-articulation,
or transposing
the vibration of who and what we
are, which is inclusive of form
to operate in what they
call the upper room.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And this has been kind of
the holy grail of, I think,
the whole new age
movement, new thought
movement, all these movements
in the last 40 years.
That's kind of what people
are trying to get toward,
but this is not easy.
And let me just
stop for a moment,
because the upper
rooms, you could--
and maybe in some
parlance it would be
called densities or dimensions.
So we know that we're living
in this collective third slash
fourth dimensional
representation of reality,
right?
And that we have this
other higher more
refined aspect of
ourselves that lives,
you might say, in
the upper rooms
or in a higher
dimensional field.
And the trick, exactly
what you're saying,
is so timely right now
in our world today.
The trick to be able to merge
that knowing, that refinement
and consciousness,
with physical life.
My husband always
says, which is it?
Do you bring that down
into the fleshly reality,
or do you try to bring the
flesh reality up into it?
So we're going to talk
quite a bit about this,
because it's not easy.
>> SELIG: It's not easy.
The guides have said we come
from a construct of belief
where if there is a god
or something like a god,
it's up there in the clouds and
we're stuck here in the mud.
And they say, well,
God is the mud.
And it's also the
body you've taken.
And it's everything
that you can see.
They say that actually, the
only problem humanity has now,
the only problem, is what they
call the denial of the divine.
Everything can be
brought down to that,
which is denying the
divine in another, denying
the divine in what you see.
And it's very hard
to accept the divine
in what you see when it doesn't
appear the way you want it to.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SELIG: But what they say
is God is all things or it
can't be anything at all.
They say what you put
in darkness calls you
to that darkness.
There's no other way.
You can't be the light and
hold another in darkness.
They're simple teachings.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SELIG: But the idea of the
divine what, the divinist form,
is a challenging teaching.
The guides work
with these things,
they call them claims of
truth, and they're actually
energetic attunements.
And one of them
is, I know who I am
in truth, which is, they
say, spoken by the true self.
It can't be spoken by
the personality self,
but the divine self
knows who it is.
And then the second claim is,
I know what I am in truth.
And the what is manifestation.
And it's an interesting thing.
When they first
brought that through
and I asked what it meant, I
thought it meant in your life.
You walk around, you're the
divine self in your life.
But they're really talking about
matter, the divine as form.
And they say if you're excluding
the divine in your own form,
you're also excluding the divine
in all things in physical form.
You can't have it both ways.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
And I think this is made evident
by the fact that people have
written about their movies, and
films, and books, and reports,
and personal experience of
people having instant healings,
for example.
Instant transformations.
That couldn't happen
if the body weren't
divine in nature, didn't have
all that already embedded
within it, right?
>> SELIG: Exactly.
But they're teaching
us, I think,
and they're using these claims--
they say what the claims
are are attunements.
They're like tuning the radios
that we are to play the higher
broadcast that's already there.
And this is to
support us in aligning
at that level of vibration.
And what they say
is when you align
at that level of vibration,
which is inclusive of form,
you become in some ways
a portal or a doorway
between the octaves.
And by nature of
your presence, which
means your field,
your energetic field,
you can be lifting what
you encounter to what
they call the upper room.
That's just entrainment.
Like attracts like.
So the one who lives
on the fifth floor
can lift what's on
the lower floor to her
by nature of being.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Lifting up into it.
Right.
OK, you mention in
your book, and you're
kind of touching around
it right now, that it's
hard to lift up
into something when
you have a whole bunch of
weights hanging onto you.
How do you get your--
how do you give yourself
that spiritual buoyancy?
So they say you have to let
go before you can actually
rise up.
You're in a conversation with
someone, or in a conversation
even with a group
of people, and there
is an increasing instance
of self-referencing,
self-reference.
So you say something,
it's a given topic,
and it's a large topic.
A person's going to take it
and immediately personalize
it and self-reference
themselves into the story.
And at first, I found it
just kind of annoying.
I thought, well, that's kind
of self-centered, you know,
judgmental.
And I started
realizing, no, it's
people trying to find
something of themselves.
They're trying to find
something to hold on to.
So how do you--
what does that feel
like to just let
go of your perception of self?
What's there?
>> SELIG: I can't say
that I've done it fully.
>> REGINA: What do they say
it's supposed to be like?
>> SELIG: Well, I'll go
to them if you want me to.
But I'll say this.
When I channel, I
whisper the words
as they come and
repeat them, so you're
going to hear things twice.
It's not the most
graceful way one channels,
but it's how it
comes through me.
But I can ask them
what it feels like
or what it is as to
let go of the mask.
>> REGINA: Now let
me ask you this.
Can you go in and out
of the channeling?
So once we go to them,
do we have to stay?
Or can we go back and
forth a little bit?
You tell me how it
feels best for you.
>> SELIG: When I'm channeling
and they're lecturing
or they're doing a book, it's
like I'm sitting in the back
seat of the car.
I turn the wheel over.
In conversation or
when I'm reading,
it's like I'm passing
the wheel back and forth.
So I can go back and forth.
I'm just not as fully receded.
>> REGINA: OK, since
we're in this moment,
and this is a really
important topic,
I think we should
probably go ahead and go.
And we'll see how it works
going back and forth, OK?
OK, so what we're
talking about here then
is most people can
imagine what it's
like to not be them
through their filters,
through their thoughts.
They would be
completely untethered.
So can you please
explain, welcome, welcome.
>> SELIG: They're saying we
would like to teach this.
And it will not be
comfortable for either of you.
The self-reference
you speak to--
the self-reference you
speak to-- is actually
an abnegation-- is actually an
abnegation-- of the true self--
of the true self-- the true
self as you truly are--
the true self is
who you truly are.
The mask that you wear--
the mask that you wear-- in
most ways-- in most ways--
is accrued through history--
who you think you should be--
who you think you should be.
What others should be for you--
what others should be for you--
if you take away the should--
which must always reference
historical data--
which must always
reference historical data--
you have the divine self--
who expresses in the present
moment--
who expresses in
the present moment--
and operates in knowing--
and operates in knowing.
The true self knows who she is.
She is not seeking to
be seen a certain way.
She is not seeking to be
seen in a certain way.
He is not demanding to be
known as he think he should.
known as he thinks he should.
But the true self in presence--
but the true self in presence--
which is the divine as you--
which is the divine as you-- has
a great claim for the world--
has a great claim for the world.
The one who embodies
at this level--
the one who embodies
becomes the benefactor
to all she sees--
to all she sees.
And by this, we simply mean--
and by this, we simply mean--
that in her resonant field--
she lifts what she encounters--
to its own true nature--
to its own true nature.
In other words,
the divine self--
in other words, the divine
self-- experiences and sees--
experiences and sees-- the
divine in all manifestation--
the divine in all manifestation.
Through this level
of perception--
through this level
a world is lifted
to a higher accord--
to a higher accord.
He interrupts-- he interrupts.
But what does it
feel like for us--
but what does it feel like for
us-- to be without the mask--
to be without the mask?
It means you have
become illumined--
it means you have become
illumined-- without fear--
without fear-- without
the need to prove--
without the need to prove.
It means you know who you are--
it means you know who you
are-- beyond the claims made
for you-- beyond the
claims made for you--
by the culture of your birth--
by the culture of your
birth-- by the age of the form
you've taken--
by the age of the
form you've taken.
It simply means--
it simply means--
you have come-- you have come.
You have aligned.
You have incarnated-- you have
incarnated-- beyond the mask--
beyond the mask.
The mask is serviceable.
You can use it as you wish.
But know it is not
who you truly are.
But know it is not who
you truly are, period.
Period.
>> REGINA: Is there--
is it my imagination, or
because of the times we're in,
and people seem to be kind
of losing bearings a bit
that it's more difficult
for people to--
it seems, in the
past, you used to be
able to have conversations
where people could
flow in and out of the subject,
and it didn't have to be this.
It didn't have to--
you didn't have to wear a mask.
It didn't have to
be self-referencing.
Is it my imagination
that something's
happening in the field that
is creating a need for people
to cling more--
>> SELIG: (WHISPERING) Terror.
>> REGINA: --to this
historical data?
>> SELIG: I hear terror,
absolute terror--
absolute terror-- at the great
changes that are upon you--
at the great changes
that are upon you.
Everything is changing.
You seek the old--
you seek the old-- the
solace of the known--
the solace of the known--
the comfort of what you could
name--
the comfort of what
you could name--
as a shroud-- as a shroud--
to protect you from change--
to protect you from change.
The times you stand in--
the times you stand in--
are amazing-- are amazing--
if you align to
that possibility--
that possibility.
But all that has been hidden--
but all that has been
hidden-- is being reseen--
is being reseen--
and reseen for one reason--
to be lifted to
a higher accord--
to be lifted to a higher accord.
What you bless-- what
you bless-- blesses
you back-- blesses you back.
What you damn damns
you in return.
Any truth-- any truth--
will withstand a lie--
will withstand a lie--.
And each of you here-- and each
of you here-- are in a phase--
are in a phase--
of agreement-- of agreement--
to your true nature--
to your true nature-- which
requires the dissemblance--
which requires
the dissemblance--
the dis-assemblance--
of who you have
thought you were--
thought you were.
And that is frightening
to the small self--
and that is frightening
who has a guarantee-- who has a
guarantee-- borne in history--
borne in history-- of what
things should be or seem--
of what things should
be or seem, period.
>> REGINA: And the small self,
which that's the mind that
tends to run the daily
show for the most part,
has a great amount of
fear having to do--
surrounding the
subject of survival.
And so with these
changes upon us
that create a destabilized
field, as far as our small self
is experiencing it, we
tend to also think back
to the things that did create
fear in us, like instantiating
trauma.
>> SELIG: [EXHALES]
>> REGINA: I just-- you know,
my mantra is stop thinking about
those things because
as you do this,
you're drawing yourself deeper
and deeper into these traumas.
The whole saying never
forget is a horrible saying.
>> SELIG: I agree.
>> REGINA: Can we talk
about that a little bit,
about what humans are doing,
and constantly looking back,
and remembering, and
remembering trauma,
and remembering where
they've been done wrong so we
don't repeat history.
It seems like we're repeating
history by doing that.
>> SELIG: I agree with you.
The guides speak to
this in different ways.
The first thing that they say,
and they say this all the time,
they say the action of
fear is to claim more fear.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SELIG: And every choice
you make in fear claims more
of the same.
Every choice you make in the
denial of the divine in another
denies the divine in yourself,
which is very simple.
What you damn damns you back.
One of the things the guides
teach is, you know, they say,
imagine you're going into--
you're walking up a mountain.
There's a cave.
You go into the cave.
In that cave is the
one person you never
want to see again
as long as you live.
Your job now is to lead
that person out of the cave.
Because you've put
them in the darkness--
>> REGINA: I think
that's beautiful.
Yeah.
>> SELIG: --they've called
you to them, you see?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SELIG: It doesn't mean you
have to hang out with them
or have lunch with them, but
you're liberating yourself.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SELIG: Now, because the
guides say the small self knows
itself through history, that's
its only frame of reference is
who she has been told she
has been, or what she thinks,
or says, or did indeed happen.
Those frames of reference
seek replication.
The small self seeks
to replicate the idea
of who it is into the future.
Now, the guides say
something, which
is really challenging for me.
And they say, you
can't be a master
and a victim at the same time.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
And how do you just--
I mean, this is a big one.
I see people really hanging
on to victim stories.
This is not cool.
>> SELIG: Well, I think--
you see--
>> REGINA: I think it's
just holding us down.
It's part of that weight
that's holding us down.
>> SELIG: The difference
is you're not denying that
something happened.
You are releasing the
self-identification through it.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
That's the difference.
>> SELIG: And that seems
to be the key here.
>> REGINA: It doesn't mean
to be stupid and say--
erase your databank.
But you don't have to touch
those sticky emotions to it
repeatedly.
>> SELIG: Well, it's going
to get you what you've had.
>> REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>> SELIG: That's the
bad news, you know?
So what else do they
want to say about this?
I'm curious.
We'd like to talk.
They're saying we
would like to talk.
I'll go there.
We would like to say two things.
History is an idea--
history is an idea--
finally an idea-- finally an
idea-- of what you think was--
of what you think was.
The future is also an idea--
the future is also an idea--
of what you think will be--
of what you think will be.
In this present moment--
in this present moment--
when you know who you are--
when you know who you are-- you
know you are safe and well--
you know you are safe and well.
The divine self as you--
the divine self as you--
does not seek recrimination--
does not seek to punish
or harm--
does not seek to punish or harm.
She knows who she is.
And because she is unafraid--
and because she is unafraid--
she may claim a new
world into being--
world into being.
You do not deny what happened.
Anybody who takes an act--
anybody who takes an act--
is accountable to the act--
is accountable to the act.
That is karma, as
you understand it.
But who and what you are--
but who and what you are-- as
a true self-- as a true self--
expresses beyond karma--
expresses beyond karma-- and
expresses beyond the need--
and expresses beyond the
need-- to replicate an idea--
to replicate an idea--
of who one is-- of who one
is-- or who another is--
or who another is--
based on your precepts--
based on your precepts-- or
ways of deciding for them--
or ways of deciding
for them, period.
They're telling me to say this.
So one of their
teachings-- and it's
a challenging teaching because
they talk about lifting things
to the upper room.
But they say you can't lift
an evil man to the upper room.
>> REGINA: No.
>> SELIG: Because
you've made him evil.
>> REGINA: It's a
frequency thing.
>> SELIG: That's the level
of alignment you've come to.
And that level of alignment
holds you in the lower strata.
So I get the choice.
If I want a damn
somebody, I can do it,
but I'm sitting right there with
him at that level of vibration.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
that's absolutely true.
And anybody that's watching
this right now knows it,
myself included.
If you have an ill
thought of someone,
there's a sticky, icky,
dense feeling around it.
And you know it.
You can't deny it.
And if you-- yeah,
and so of course
it's going to magnetize the
same energy to it towards you.
So OK, so one of the
things that seems
has been challenging
for humanity,
all throughout humanity,
and in these times,
and maybe even more
so with all the noise,
is that of listening
to our own higher voice
because there's so
much noise coming in.
And I mean, I have my own way
of defining and listening.
And each person has
to find their own.
Way but can you,
or they, give us
an idea of maybe a
more universal way
of knowing or tapping in to
that higher aspect of self,
whether it be by a
feeling or whatever?
Because I know
we're all different.
We get our information
differently.
>> SELIG: Well, they say, you
know, the true self knows,
and the small self thinks.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> SELIG: And they invite
people to look at the difference
between thinking and knowing.
So remember a time in
your life when you knew.
And when you've known
something, there
was never a question attached.
>> REGINA: That's very
good, very clear and simple.
>> SELIG: It's very simple.
So let me see if they
want to add to that.
We would like to say one thing.
The whole teaching that
we are giving you--
the whole teaching we are giving
you-- is about rearticulation--
is about rearticulation-- which
is re-knowing who you are--
which is really
knowing who you are--
and accessing the true self--
and accessing the true self,
who operates in knowing-- and
is unafraid of the truth--
and is unafraid of the truth--
unafraid of being seen--
as the light she truly is--
as the light she truly is.
As you counter the
darkness in yourself--
as you counter the
as you lift beyond the
darkness you have held--
as you lift beyond
the darkness you
have held-- you
can support others
in doing the same--
you can support others
in doing the same.
You don't do this
through effort--
you don't do this
but through knowing
who they are--
who they are.
The divine as you--
the divine as you-- knows who
the divine is in another--
knows who the divine
is in another--
regardless of how they present--
what they have done--
what they have done-- or what
you might think of them--
or what you might think of
them-- as the true self--
as the true self.
Now, the true self as
you-- now, true self
as you-- recognizes the
divinity in everyone--
recognizes the
divinity in everyone.
She cannot not do that.
It is who she is.
And that is true knowing--
and that is true knowing--
and will continue to be--
and will continue to be.
>> REGINA: And so this would
mean that it's really very
important for each of us, when
we see the beauty in another
person, to really reflect
that back, if possible,
if we have a means
of articulating it.
Because we're so
insecure as a species,
we don't listen
to our own voice.
And a lot of times,
we go into competition
rather than trying to help
elevate the other person.
>> SELIG: Yeah.
It's what-- I mean, it's
how we've been taught.
But I mean, what they say is
the true self isn't competing.
>> REGINA: No, ever.
>> SELIG: And they say
if you want to compete,
if you want to enjoy running
a race and see who gets there
first, do it for the
joy of running the race.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SELIG: But your sense of
value can't be contingent
on the outcome.
I mean, none of what the
guides teach through me
I find to be terribly convenient
to the culture we operate in.
I mean, they say, you know,
the beggar and the king
are both learning
lessons of abundance,
just in different ways.
And it's you that makes
one higher or better
than the other.
>> REGINA: True.
>> SELIG: It's a
cultural construct.
>> REGINA: And yet, the
thing that grips the beggar,
the king, and most people
that are walking the face
of the Earth, because we have
physical mortality attached
to the lower mind, is
the fear of the unknown,
afraid of letting go of who
we think we are because we
don't know what's out there
if we don't know what we are,
and who we are, and our place
in the world, and our stories,
and everything.
But in fact, whenever we do,
yourself and other people,
whenever we do let go of the
known and just go for the ride,
it's so much more
interesting and beautiful.
>> SELIG: I agree with you.
I'm not always
there yet, you know?
I still worry too much.
I still have-- and
the guides talk
about these things
as sort of like rocks
that you keep in your
pockets, that are keeping you
from lifting fully.
And what they're talking
about now, which is really
getting trippy for
me, is what it means
to let go of those things.
And a lot of those
things are really
held in the nervous system.
They're held in the body memory.
It's the memory of fear,
the memory of pain,
the agreements that we have made
culturally to what should be.
And the releasing of
those is a very large act.
They say it happens
in the upper room.
You get to that
level of vibration,
and then you can begin to
transmute at that level.
They're saying say this.
I'm surprised.
But the attunement
that they're working
with now, which will be the
attunement of the next book,
which I'm assuming,
because that's
how they bring them through--
is the claim, behold,
I make all things new.
And they say that's
claimed by the divine self
in manifestation, who is
not attached to history--
>> REGINA: Truly.
>> SELIG: --and can consequently
transmute it or release it.
And it's a powerful claim.
They do it in the workshops now.
And you can feel the
energy roll out like saves.
>> REGINA: Say it again.
>> SELIG: Behold, I
make all things new.
>> REGINA: That's
very beautiful.
It's very direct,
and it's very true.
>> SELIG: Yeah.
>> REGINA: OK, so we're
starting to get an idea
of what's possible.
The letting go in the
physical body part,
the mind-spirit-body
link, I think,
has really been misunderstood,
certainly in the Western world.
We're starting to get it now.
But tell us the depth
to which that is true,
the depth to which these
traumas we've experienced,
even the joys we've
experienced, are genuinely
embedded in ourselves.
>> SELIG: Let me get it from
them because that's beyond
my stuff.
We would like to answer this.
As you understand yourself--
as you understand yourself--
through history--
through history,
you give great
credence to what has
happened-- you give great
credence to what has happened.
You embody at that
level of agreement--
you embody at that
level of agreement.
The scars of history--
the scars of history--
can be claimed by you--
can be claimed by you-- as
a way of identifying self--
as a way of identifying self.
Now, understand, friends--
now, understand, friends--
you are not your scars--
you are not your scars.
You are not your gender.
You are not what
happened to you.
The frame that you hold--
the frame that you hold--
I am the victim--
I am the victim-- the
one who was so harmed--
the one who was so harmed--
calls to you everything you
expect--
calls to you
everything you expect--
that frame to supply--
that frame to supply.
You are always agreeing
to your reality--
you are always agreeing
at whatever level you choose--
at whatever level you choose.
To re-identify beyond the old--
to re-identify beyond
the old-- is the process
of re-articulation-- is the
process of re-articulation--
which is the manifestation
of the divine--
that has come as each of you--
that has come as each of you.
Re-articulation--
re-articulation--
which is the manifestation
of the divine self--
in an embodied state--
transmutes and reclaims--
the agenda of history--
the idea of what happened--
the ways you have
thought yourself to be--
thought yourself to be.
The gift of the teaching--
the gift of the teaching--
is the resurrected self--
is the resurrected self-- who
does not operate in fear--
who does not operate in fear--
does not operate in shame--
and does not self-identify--
through the fear that she has
been taught to believe in--
been taught to believe in.
Period.
They're saying period.
>> REGINA: Thank you.
Let's take it even denser now.
Let's go dense.
Let's go right down into this
dimension-- food, the amount
of beliefs around food.
And now, it's becoming ever
more kind of splintered.
And that's good.
I mean, I know our
bodies are changing,
so we're accepting
food on some levels
differently because we're
energetically changing.
But the belief
systems around food--
Let me just give
you one example.
A friend tells me of this man
she'd gone to the conference.
He was one of the people there.
And he said, I love sweets.
I live on sweets.
And all he ate were
desserts, mounds of desserts.
And he looked very, very
young, very, very energetic,
and was going about his
life as a master would,
in the truest
sense of the word--
just that's what I like to eat.
So someone else would
say, oh, my god,
you have Snickers for
breakfast, lunch, and dinner?
What happens with our
belief about food.
Because now we're down-- we're
in vegan, vegetarianism, paleo,
carnivore, each one
saying this is the way.
And then we attach
our beliefs to it.
Can you talk about our
mind matrix and food
and what this is doing?
>> SELIG: I'll ask them
because it's-- you know,
it's one of my issues.
>> REGINA: It's
such a a big deal.
It's everyone's issue.
>> SELIG: We would
like to teach this--
we would like to teach this--
if, in fact, we are allowed--
if, in fact, we are allowed.
The idea of the body--
the idea of the body-- is
supported by the science
of the times you hold--
is supported by the science
which is indeed limited--
which is indeed limited.
Now everything is in vibration.
Anything that you ingest--
anything that you ingest--
is actually aligned--
to the system you
imbibe it through--
to the system that
you imbibe it through.
When there is disresonance--
when there is disresonance--
no resonance-- no resonance--
between what is eaten--
and the human being--
who is eating--
who is eating-- you have
challenges of the body--
you have challenges of the body.
To realize the divine--
to realize the divine--
the inherent divine--
in anything you eat--
lifts the vibration--
lifts the vibration.
You may name it what you wish.
You may eat the animal--
you may eat the animal--
if you are called
to-- if you are called to.
You may choose the name
of a diet, if you wish.
But until you realize--
but until you realize--
that what you eat--
must be reknown as of god--
must be reknown as of
god-- you will have dis--
will have dis-resonance--
or lack of resonance--
or a lack of resonance--
that the body will take in--
that the body will take
it-- and be harmed by--
and be harmed by.
So I'm just going to ask,
is this basically blessing
your food?
Yes, and more.
But to bless something--
but to bless something--
without realizing
what a blessing is--
means very little--
means very little.
To bless anything--
to bless anything--
is to claim it in
the presence of god--
the source of all things--
the source of all things.
God is the food you eat.
It is also what you expel--
it is also what you expel--
after eating-- after eating.
There is one source
of all things.
You can name it
any way you wish.
The entire manifest plane--
the entire manifest plane--
is an articulation--
of the one note played--
which you may call god--
or the infrastructure--
or the infrastructure-- that
informs all manifestation--
that informs all
manifestation, period.
>> REGINA: So then what would
have proper blessing look
and feel like?
>> SELIG: That's a
really good question.
We would to offer you
one if you wish it.
We would like to offer
you one if you wish it.
What is before me--
what is before me-- cannot
be separate from source--
cannot be separate from source.
And what is not
separate from source--
and what is not
is a blessing to my being--
is a blessing to my being.
As I am blessed by what I eat--
as I am blessed by what I eat--
I am aligned to a high octave--
a high agreement--
of the needs of the
form I've taken--
form I have taken.
And the needs of the
form I have taken--
and the needs of the
direct me to what I require--
period-- period-- period.
>> REGINA: And then there's
this philosophical conflict that
people have because
animals have lives.
They have their own
soul or group souls.
And then to ingest
animals, you know,
and the guilt people
feel, then they're
drawn to do so for grounding
or whatever purpose, can they
speak a little bit to
the notion of how it is,
this relationship between
animals, and eating animals,
and being human?
>> SELIG: I'll go there.
I mean, what they've said
in the past about this--
because people will
often ask the guides,
what should we be
eating and whatever.
And they're saying
there are no rules.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SELIG: You know,
that's the challenge.
You all want this system
that you can abide by.
And they say, a
discipline or a system
can be helpful until it
becomes a limitation.
But you have to operate
as you are moved
to at the level of spirit.
So let me see what they
want to say about this.
>> REGINA: Just about the
spiritual relationship between
us and animals.
>> SELIG: If you realize
the inherent divinity
of the animal-- if you realize--
the inherent divinity--
of the animal--
of the animal-- and you are
responsible for your choice
to eat it--
and you are responsible
to your choice to eat it--
you are claiming an identity--
you are claiming an identity.
I am the one--
I am the one-- who
chooses to do this--
who chooses to do this.
As long as you know
your own choice--
as long as you know
with any action that you take--
with any action
that you take-- you
are accountable to
the choice-- you
are accountable to the choice.
We don't make it right or wrong.
You do.
Say this if you wish.
They're telling me
to say this if you
wish because one of the
things the guides have said
through me in the
past is well, you
don't kill what you
know to be holy.
So I'm just going to
ask what that means.
The plant is also holy.
You are claiming the plant--
you are claiming the plant--
for your meal-- for your meal.
But it is of god,
as is the animal.
It is of god, as is the animal.
All things are of god.
What you put out of god--
what you put out of god--
what you put in shadow--
you call to that shadow--
with you-- with you.
You deny god-- you deny god-- in
what you do-- in what you do--
and then you want to pat
yourself on the back--
for the high choice
you have made--
you have made.
If the divine is in
the meal you've taken--
if the divine is in the
meal you have taken--
the divine is in all things--
understand that--
and you'll be lifted
by your choice--
and you will be
lifted by your choice.
>> REGINA: Then people would
get into the notion of, is there
forgiveness within all this
if you're taking the life
of the plant or you're taking
the life of the animal?
>> SELIG: Everything
is of god, as are you.
Everything is of
god, as are you.
Everything is vibration--
everything is vibration--
as are you--
as are you.
You are coexisting in a field--
you are coexisting
in a field-- that you
comprehend as reality-- that
you comprehend as reality.
And you make choices
and assumption--
and you make choices
of the rules you would
like to have played out--
like to have played out.
We are not telling
you to not eat meat--
we are not telling you not to
eat meat-- or to eat meat--
or to eat meat.
We are saying you are
accountable to your choices.
It is you who make
things right and wrong.
things right or wrong.
We do not.
We do not, period,
period, period.
>> REGINA: But you see
what I'm saying is,
these are other beings that
have a right to life too
>> SELIG: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
>> REGINA: I mean, I've been
through this back and forth.
But they have a
right to life too.
>> SELIG: I agree.
>> REGINA: And they
are of the same divine.
So at what point do
we have the right
to cut off the life
of anything else
to sustain our physical bodies?
I mean, this is a big one.
>> SELIG: It's a
really good question.
It's a choice the
individual makes.
individual makes--
at the level of consciousness--
he or she has aligned to--
he or she has aligned to.
The one who has moved
beyond the need for meat--
the one who has moved
will no longer eat it--
will no longer eat it.
She will not want it.
To mandate that
someone not do this--
to mandate that someone not
do this-- not eat meat--
not eat meat-- that is
not at that level of--
that is not at that
level of alignment--
is actually prohibitive--
a restriction--
a restriction-- and the
denial of free will--
and the denial of free will.
When the will that you hold--
when the will that you hold--
the individual will that you
hold--
the individual will
that you hold--
is aligned to the divine will--
you'll be very surprised--
you'll be very surprised-- at
what actions you are choosing
to take--
at what actions you
are choosing to take--
and, in fact, how
you may change--
what you have become
accustomed to--
accustomed to, period.
>> REGINA: So really, part
of this process of blessing,
recognizing the divinity,
listening to the body and what
it's asking for, it can start
elevating itself in terms
of its own desires
over time as well?
>> SELIG: I get yes.
>> REGINA: Yes.
OK, interestingly--
>> SELIG: It's a process, yeah.
>> REGINA: Because we
see ourselves as such,
we would not want to be
eaten by another species.
That would not be acceptable
to us as human beings.
Yet we expect it to be--
>> SELIG: I agree.
>> REGINA: --acceptable to
other species on some level.
So I think this is a really
hard one for humanity
right now, as people are
trying to go in and out,
do the right thing, lift their
frequencies so that they can
get closer to their true self.
I must be vegan to do this.
And you know, I've done
all of it, you know.
>> SELIG: Yeah.
>> REGINA: But it's a
point of great confusion.
And also, our
digestive systems seems
to be rebelling en masse
against almost all of it.
>> SELIG: I agree.
>> REGINA: Is it because of
confusion or because our bodies
are intrinsically
going through a change?
>> SELIG: Everything
is changing.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Care to elaborate any more?
Our digestive
systems are actually
now going through a change
also as human species--
>> SELIG: The entire body
is at a higher octave.
Yeah, the body is acclimating
to a higher octave.
And what the body has held--
and what the body has
held-- that operates in fear
of darkness-- that operates
in fear and darkness--
must be reknown
in a higher way--
must be reknown in a higher way.
If ingesting low vibration--
if ingesting low vibration--
is claiming the body in accord--
you will have to release that--
you will have to release that.
But the individual
knows what she requires.
We cannot say one size fits all.
We cannot say one
size fits all, period.
>> REGINA: So in that sense,
the body probably has more
intelligence than our heads
and all ideas we're trying to--
>> SELIG: I hear correct.
>> REGINA: --live
out ideologically.
Good.
We'll leave that one
because it's just
a point of so much pain
and confusion for people.
Let's go to the notion of
institutions for a moment.
Our world is-- our
institutions are breaking down.
Once you had philosophical-- you
have great philosophical minds,
Plato and others, teaching
their students under the stars.
And everything was whole.
There was a holistic
way of thinking.
And now you have institutions
where knowledge is partitioned
and spoonfed at different age
grades only for memorization
and so forth.
That's education.
But that seems to be also
how most of our institutions
are working.
What is going on?
As you say, all things are
changing, creating terror.
What is happening with
this industrial age
compartmentalization
of everything,
to where it's no longer whole?
What has to happen in order
to become whole again?
>> SELIG: I'm going to ask.
I'm going to ask.
I want to say first, you now,
I was an academic for 25 years.
I taught at NYU,
and I'm an educator.
>> REGINA: And no
offense to you.
>> SELIG: No.
>> REGINA: But you
know what I mean--
>> SELIG: I do
know what you mean.
>> REGINA: Little kids being--
>> SELIG: But I'm a progressive
educator and always was.
And the progressive educator
is aware of the innate learning
needs of the student.
People learn in different ways.
And one size, again,
doesn't fit all.
So how do we sort of reunite
all of the compartmentalization?
Compartmentalization
is an interesting term.
They're saying,
compartmentalization
is an interesting term.
It actually claims things
in separation-- it actually
claims things in separation.
Until the individual realizes--
until the individual realizes--
what unity means-- what unity
means-- she will continue
to manifest separation--
she will continue
to manifest separation.
An ideologue-- an ideologue--
one who says this is what
things should be--
one who says this is
what things should be--
will seek agreement--
for his or her ideas--
for his or her ideas.
The one who decides what a
government should look like--
the one who decides what a
will mandate, let others agree--
will mandate, let
all others agree.
When everything is lifted--
when everything is lifted--
which simply means reknown--
as of source-- as of source--
there will be reclamation--
there will be a reclamation--
of identity-- of identity--
in institutional ways--
in institutional ways.
But we will say this first.
Any institution--
any institution--
that has a basis in fear--
that has a basis in
fear-- must be reknown--
must be reknown-- and, in
fact, will be reclaimed--
and, in fact, will be
reclaimed-- in a higher
octave-- in a higher octave.
You cannot claim the old--
you cannot claim the old--
and embrace the new--
and embrace the new.
What you are speaking to--
what you are speaking to-- is
an agreement to manifestation--
is an agreement
to manifestation--
the divine as all things--
the divine as all things.
See where you have kept
god out of the equation--
see where you have kept
you will find where you
are separate from it--
and you will find where you
are separate from it, period.
>> REGINA: It seems like-- the
age of industrialization has
been called the second dark
ages because it robs the actual
presence of spirit
in all of these,
throughout our engagement
with what has become
the institutions of the world.
And so right now, we're
seeing a wonderful time
where everything's in such
chaos that systems are
starting to rebel and crumble.
And backlashes are occurring.
We're seeing this politically
all over the world.
We're starting-- people
are like, oh, my god,
our system is under
threat and such.
Is this a good thing?
>> SELIG: I depends on
how you perceive it.
It depends on how
you perceive it.
If you're seeking
to retain the old--
if you are seeking to retain the
old-- or the idea of what was--
or the idea of what was--
you may be disappointed--
you may be disappointed.
Everything must be made new.
And the cost of
the new is the old.
What something appears to be--
what something appears
to be-- may not
be what it really is-- may
not be what it truly is.
And what things truly are--
and what things
truly are-- in, fact
will be seen and known-- in
fact, will be seen and known.
The divine self--
the divine self--
the truth of who you are--
is the ambassador for change--
in the manifest world--
in the manifest world.
What do you think reality is--
what you think reality is--
is simply an agreement--
to an idea of what was--
to an idea of what was.
As you begin to perceive anew--
as you begin to perceive anew--
even the structures
that you have claimed--
even the structures that you
have claimed-- the industries--
the industries-- the
religions-- the religions--
the industries
that you work in--
the industries that you work
in-- and seek to maintain--
and seek to maintain-- will
be seen in a higher way--
will be seen in a higher way.
Change is not
comfortable-- change is not
comfortable-- to the small
self-- to the small self.
But it is here.
>> REGINA: Now, what I'm
about to say, I know,
can push some
buttons and so forth.
But it is very
interesting because it
had to do with a report I read.
But I think at large it speaks
to what you're talking about.
And that is the notion of
to conserve is conservatism.
We have a big rift between
progressive and conservative
in the country.
And this whole notion--
in our country and
around the world.
It's happening everywhere.
And so, again, it
seems to me that this
is an archetypal time,
historically, of needing
to let go of the past.
To conserve as to try
to maintain, maintain
ideas, maintain ways
of life, maintain
the way the population
looks and feels,
boundaries, borders,
and everything.
We're not in a time that
supports conservatism.
It seems to me we're in
a time of letting go.
How--
>> SELIG: I hear it's
happening anyway.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SELIG: You can't maintain.
You can't maintain change.
>> REGINA: You can't stop it.
>> SELIG: You can't maintain.
Change-- Change.
Change happens.
Change comes-- change comes--
at the cost of the old--
at the cost of the old.
The small self knows
herself though history.
herself through history.
She will seek to maintain
an idea of self--
she will seek to maintain
at the cost of what
would come in its place--
would come its place.
Use this example.
It's good.
They're saying use this example.
And an example
they're showing me
is somebody who's in
a terrible marriage.
It's just not working.
But the fear of being without
how he or she has defined
him or herself in
the marriage is
so terrifying, people
will maintain the worst,
as opposed to claim the
possibility for the new.
I mean, I was just
proofing the newest book.
And there was something in
there where the guides said,
you know, how do you
operate in a time
where everything is unknown,
where those no certainty?
>> REGINA: And
everything's changing.
>> SELIG: Everything
is changing.
And they say, well,
you basically--
you don't try to control it.
You show up.
And they say the way is
lit as you step forward.
You can't make it the way
you want to be anymore.
>> REGINA: And this is the--
>> SELIG: I don't think
it's going to happen.
>> REGINA: Yeah, that's the
archetypal battle we're seeing,
people who don't want to let go
because that's what they know.
That's what's comforting.
And the unknown is everything.
Everything out there
is the unknown.
And so I can understand
it on a deep heart level.
It's just causing
so much division
that's being fomented around
the world between people who
don't want to let
go and those who
want to try to find a new way.
It's really down to
that, nothing more.
>> SELIG: I think you can
even simplify it more to say,
if you want to deny the
divine or the presence of god,
whatever you want to call
it-- if there is a god,
if you want to go there
and say, well, there is,
then it must be in even
the person you can't stand.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> SELIG: And if
you can go there,
you can find great
potential, and great change,
and great beauty.
But the guides keep saying
you can't be the light
and hold another in darkness.
And I find it the height
of hypocrisy in religion
that people do that, and in
government and everything else.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> SELIG: I mean, the guides
I work with say, you know,
you are your brother's keeper.
You really are.
You're accountable to this.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SELIG: So you know, we have
great opportunity now if we
take it.
And they're teaching this
a way, perhaps, to do that.
>> REGINA: We have to have the
courage to let go of our story
and our story about
everybody else.
>> SELIG: Yes, exactly.
>> REGINA: You know that's,
kind of a perfect place to end.
And I love the message about you
can't hold others in darkness
without going there yourself.
I think that's just
simple, direct, and true.
And when it comes to being able
to listen to our higher self,
to understand that we've all
had these moments of knowing,
and those knowing--
going back to that feeling
in those times of knowing
is what we can hold as our own
example of what we can continue
to do within ourselves.
Anything else that you'd
like to add or your guides
would like to add
before we sign off?
>> SELIG: Well, let's see if
they want to say anything.
We would like to say two things.
The divine as you has come.
And we will say this for you.
You may say it after
us if you wish.
And we will say this for you,
and you may say it after us
if you wish.
It is an attunement to
the energy we work with.
I know who I am in truth.
I know what I am in truth.
I know how I serve.
I know how I serve in truth.
I am free.
The true self knows who she is--
the true self knows who
she is-- knows what he is--
knows what he is-- and can only
be free-- and can only be free,
period.
They're saying period.
Anything else?
Thank you for your presence.
So thank you for having me.
>> REGINA: Thank you, Paul.
And thank you.
That was very beautiful.
Thank you.
>> SELIG: You're welcome.
>> REGINA: To get in touch
with Paul and follow his work,
he's all over the world.
Go to his seminars, workshops.
Buy his books.
You can go to paulselig.com.
You can also go to Amazon
and major booksellers
to connect with his books.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]